.\" Man page for voidwave
.\" Generated for VOIDWAVE v10.0.0
.TH VOIDWAVE 1 "December 2025" "VOIDWAVE 10.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
voidwave \- Network security assessment toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B voidwave
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B voidwave
is a comprehensive network security assessment toolkit for penetration testing,
wireless auditing, and security research. It provides a unified interface for
scanning, WiFi operations, stress testing, and credential cracking.
.PP
VOIDWAVE integrates common security tools (nmap, aircrack-ng, hashcat, etc.)
into a cohesive workflow with session management, guided wizards, and
extensive logging.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be executed without making changes. Useful for testing commands.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-json
Output in JSON format where supported. Implies \fB\-\-quiet\fR.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress non-essential output. Only show results and errors.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose debug output. Sets log level to DEBUG.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Launch interactive menu mode for guided workflows.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-target " " \fIIP\fR
Specify target IP address or CIDR range.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIDIR\fR
Override output directory for results and logs.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan
Network scanning using nmap, masscan, or other scanning tools.
.TP
.B wifi
WiFi operations including monitor mode, deauthentication, and packet capture.
.TP
.B stress
Stress testing with tools like hping3 and mdk4.
.TP
.B config
Configuration management (show, get, set, edit, validate, reset).
.TP
.B session
Session management for pausing and resuming operations.
.TP
.B status
Show system information and tool availability status.
.TP
.B logs
Log viewing, filtering, and search operations.
.TP
.B wizard
Guided interactive workflows for common tasks.
.TP
.B debug
Launch interactive debug shell with all libraries loaded.
.TP
.B help
Show help message.
.SH CONFIG SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B config show
Display all configuration values.
.TP
.B config get \fIKEY\fR
Get a specific configuration value.
.TP
.B config set \fIKEY\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Set a configuration value.
.TP
.B config edit
Open configuration file in editor.
.TP
.B config path
Show path to configuration file.
.TP
.B config validate
Validate all configuration values.
.TP
.B config reset
Reset configuration to defaults.
.SH WIFI SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B wifi list
List available wireless interfaces.
.TP
.B wifi status \fIINTERFACE\fR
Show interface mode (monitor/managed).
.TP
.B wifi monitor on \fIINTERFACE\fR
Enable monitor mode on interface.
.TP
.B wifi monitor off \fIINTERFACE\fR
Disable monitor mode on interface.
.SH LOGS SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B logs
Show recent log entries (alias for \fBlogs show\fR).
.TP
.B logs show \fR[\fIN\fR]
Show last N lines of today's log (default: 50).
.TP
.B logs search \fIPATTERN\fR
Search all log files for pattern.
.TP
.B logs filter \-\-level \fILEVEL\fR
Filter logs by level (DEBUG, INFO, SUCCESS, WARNING, ERROR, FATAL).
.TP
.B logs filter \-\-date \fIYYYYMMDD\fR
Filter logs from a specific date.
.TP
.B logs tail \fR[\fB\-f\fR]
Tail the log file, optionally following new entries.
.TP
.B logs list
List available log files.
.TP
.B logs clear \fR[\fIDAYS\fR]
Delete log files older than N days (default: 7).
.SH SESSION SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B session list
List all saved sessions.
.TP
.B session list \-\-active
List only active sessions.
.TP
.B session info \fIID\fR
Show details about a specific session.
.TP
.B session resume \fIID\fR
Resume a saved session.
.TP
.B session delete \fIID\fR
Delete a session.
.TP
.B session cleanup \fR[\fIDAYS\fR]
Remove sessions older than N days (default: 30).
.SH WIZARD SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B wizard first
First-time setup wizard.
.TP
.B wizard scan
Guided network scanning workflow.
.TP
.B wizard wifi
Guided WiFi assessment workflow (requires root).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B VW_NON_INTERACTIVE
Set to 1 to disable all interactive prompts. Useful for scripts and CI.
.TP
.B VW_SUPPRESS_OUTPUT
Set to 1 to suppress non-essential output.
.TP
.B VW_DRY_RUN
Set to 1 to enable dry-run mode globally.
.TP
.B VW_UNSAFE_MODE
Set to 1 to bypass safety confirmations (use with caution).
.TP
.B DEBUG
Set to 1 to enable debug output.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Set to 1 to disable colored output.
.TP
.B VOIDWAVE_HOME
Base directory for all VOIDWAVE data (default: ~/.voidwave).
.TP
.B VOIDWAVE_CONFIG_DIR
Configuration directory (default: ~/.voidwave/config).
.TP
.B VOIDWAVE_LOG_DIR
Log directory (default: ~/.voidwave/logs).
.TP
.B VOIDWAVE_LOG_LEVEL
Minimum log level: 0=DEBUG, 1=INFO, 2=SUCCESS, 3=WARNING, 4=ERROR, 5=FATAL.
.TP
.B VOIDWAVE_LOG_FORMAT
Log format: "text" (default) or "json" for structured logging.
.TP
.B VOIDWAVE_FILE_LOGGING
Set to 0 to disable file logging.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.voidwave/
Base directory for user data.
.TP
.I ~/.voidwave/config/voidwave.conf
User configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.voidwave/logs/
Log files directory.
.TP
.I ~/.voidwave/loot/
Captured credentials and handshakes.
.TP
.I ~/.voidwave/sessions/
Saved session files.
.SH EXAMPLES
Basic network scan:
.PP
.RS 4
voidwave scan \-t 192.168.1.0/24
.RE
.PP
Dry-run to preview WiFi monitor mode:
.PP
.RS 4
voidwave \-\-dry\-run wifi monitor on wlan0
.RE
.PP
Get status in JSON format:
.PP
.RS 4
voidwave \-\-json status
.RE
.PP
Filter logs by error level:
.PP
.RS 4
voidwave logs filter \-\-level ERROR
.RE
.PP
Follow logs in real-time:
.PP
.RS 4
voidwave logs tail \-f
.RE
.PP
Run in non-interactive mode:
.PP
.RS 4
VW_NON_INTERACTIVE=1 voidwave config show
.RE
.PP
JSON logging for parsing:
.PP
.RS 4
VOIDWAVE_LOG_FORMAT=json voidwave status 2>&1 | jq .
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
General error or invalid arguments.
.TP
.B 2
Missing required tools or dependencies.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nmap (1),
.BR aircrack-ng (1),
.BR hashcat (1),
.BR hping3 (8),
.BR tcpdump (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs via project issue tracker.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the VOIDWAVE team.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2024-2025 VOIDWAVE Project.
Licensed under the MIT License.
